`matdb` Database Types
======================

Depending on the needs of the potential, different configuration types
need to be generated for training. Each configuration type is referred
to loosely as a "Group" and `matdb` supports multiple group types:

1. Enumerated structures selected from an enumerated list of
   symmetrically distinct configurations.
2. AFLOW which allows the querying of the `aflowlib.org` database.
3. Active which contains structures being used for `mtp` active learning.
4. Distortion which distorts the atoms within the seed configurations.
5. Substitution which changes the stoichiometry of the seed
   configuration.
6. Vacancy which introduces vacancies into the atomic basis of the
   seed configuration.
7. Manual which allows for a database to be constructed from user
   supplied seed configurations.

Seed Configurations
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Many of the database groups need seed configurations to run. Since
`matdb` interfaces with multiple calculators and file formats. As such
it is neccessary that the file format of each config file to be used
by a group be set by the user using the `seeds` keyword:

.. code-block:: yaml

   steps:
     - type: 'simple.Manual'
       seeds: ["POSCAR:PdAg25","POSCAR:PdAgp0","POSCAR:PdAg75"]

`seeds` take a list of configuration files as "file format : file
name". The file format can be any that are recognized by the
`ase.io.read`_. The files can have any name desired by the
user but they must be stored in a folder called *SEED* located in the
root directory for the database. 

.. _ase.io.read: https://wiki.fysik.dtu.dk/ase/ase/io/io.html

Databases that use seed configurations are: `vacancy`, `distortion`,
`substitution`, and `manual`. The other databases generate their own
configurations or have the configurations generated by other
processes, like the `active` database whose configurations are
generated during the `active` learning phase of an `mtp` potential
fit.
   
.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Modules:

   database/enumerated.rst
   database/aflow.rst
   database/active.rst
   database/distortion.rst
   database/substitution.rst
   database/vacancy.rst
   database/manual.rst
